
Markdown
mdBook’s parser adheres to the CommonMark specification with some extensions described below.
You can take a quick tutorial,
or try out CommonMark in real time. A complete Markdown overview is out of scope for
this documentation, but below is a high level overview of some of the basics. For a more in-depth experience, check out the
Markdown Guide.
Text and paragraphs
Text is rendered relatively predictably:

Will look like you might expect:
Here is a line of text.
This is a new line.
Headings
Headings use the # marker and should be on a line by themselves. More # mean smaller headings:

A heading
Some text.
A smaller heading
More text.
Lists
Lists can be unordered or ordered. Ordered lists will order automatically:


milk
eggs
butter


carrots
celery
radishes

Links
Linking to a URL or local file is easy:

Use mdBook.
Read about mdBook.
And now an mdBook link that is not inline, unlike the above.
A bare url: https://www.rust-lang.org.

Relative links that end with .md will be converted to the .html extension.
It is recommended to use .md links when possible.
This is useful when viewing the Markdown file outside of mdBook, for example on GitHub or GitLab which render Markdown automatically.
Links to README.md will be converted to index.html.
This is done since some services like GitHub render README files automatically, but web servers typically expect the root file to be called index.html.
You can link to individual headings with # fragments.
For example, mdbook.md#text-and-paragraphs would link to the Text and Paragraphs section above.
The ID is created by transforming the heading such as converting to lowercase and replacing spaces with dashes.
You can click on any heading and look at the URL in your browser to see what the fragment looks like.
Images
Including images is simply a matter of including a link to them, much like in the Links section above. The following markdown
includes the Rust logo SVG image found in the images directory at the same level as this file:

Produces the following HTML when built with mdBook:

Which, of course displays the image like so:

Extensions
mdBook has several extensions beyond the standard CommonMark specification.
Strikethrough
Text may be rendered with a horizontal line through the center by wrapping the
text with one or two tilde characters on each side:

This example will render as:

An example of strikethrough text.

This follows the GitHub Strikethrough extension.
Footnotes
A footnote generates a small numbered link in the text which when clicked
takes the reader to the footnote text at the bottom of the item. The footnote
label is written similarly to a link reference with a caret at the front. The
footnote text is written like a link reference definition, with the text
following the label. Example:

This example will render as:

This is an example of a footnote1.

The footnotes are automatically numbered based on the order the footnotes are
written.
Tables
Tables can be written using pipes and dashes to draw the rows and columns of
the table. These will be translated to HTML table matching the shape. Example:

This example will render similarly to this:



Header1Header2


abcdef



See the specification for the GitHub Tables extension for more
details on the exact syntax supported.
Task lists
Task lists can be used as a checklist of items that have been completed.
Example:

This will render as:


 Complete task
 Incomplete task


See the specification for the task list extension for more details.
Smart punctuation
Some ASCII punctuation sequences will be automatically turned into fancy Unicode
characters:



ASCII sequenceUnicode


--–
---—
...…
"“ or ”, depending on context
'‘ or ’, depending on context



So, no need to manually enter those Unicode characters!
This feature is enabled by default.
To disable it, see the output.html.smart-punctuation config option.
Heading attributes
Headings can have a custom HTML ID and classes. This lets you maintain the same ID even if you change the heading’s text, it also lets you add multiple classes in the heading.
Example:

This makes the level 1 heading with the content Example heading, ID first, and classes class1 and class2. Note that the attributes should be space-separated.
More information can be found in the heading attrs spec page.
Definition lists
Definition lists can be used for things like glossary entries. The term is listed on a line by itself, followed by one or more definitions. Each definition must begin with a : (after 0-2 spaces).
Example:

This will render as:

term A
This is a definition of term A. Text
can span multiple lines.
term B
This is a definition of term B.
This has more than one definition.

Terms are clickable just like headers, which will set the browser’s URL to point directly to that term.
See the definition lists spec for more information on the specifics of the syntax. See the Wikipedia guidelines for glossaries for some guidelines on how to write a glossary.
This feature is enabled by default.
To disable it, see the output.html.definition-lists config option.
Admonitions
An admonition is a special type of callout or notice block used to highlight important information. It is written as a blockquote with a special tag on the first line.

These will render as:

Note
General information or additional context.


Tip
A helpful suggestion or best practice.


Important
Key information that shouldn’t be missed.


Warning
Critical information that highlights a potential risk.


Caution
Information about potential issues that require caution.

This feature is enabled by default.
To disable it, see the output.html.admonitions config option.
Zoom-in
All images in the chapters content have a “zoom-in” feature: you can click on it to make it bigger, and click it again to zoom out. You can focus the image with the keyboard as well, and press the spacebar to zoom in and out as well.



This text is the contents of the footnote, which will be rendered
towards the bottom. ↩



