
Preprocessors
A preprocessor is simply a bit of code which gets run immediately after the
book is loaded and before it gets rendered, allowing you to update and mutate
the book. Possible use cases are:

Creating custom helpers like {{#include /path/to/file.md}}
Substituting in latex-style expressions ($$ \frac{1}{3} $$) with their
mathjax equivalents

See Configuring Preprocessors for more information about using preprocessors.
Hooking into MDBook
MDBook uses a fairly simple mechanism for discovering third party plugins.
A new table is added to book.toml (e.g. [preprocessor.foo] for the foo
preprocessor) and then mdbook will try to invoke the mdbook-foo program as
part of the build process.
Once the preprocessor has been defined and the build process starts, mdBook executes the command defined in the preprocessor.foo.command key twice.
The first time it runs the preprocessor to determine if it supports the given renderer.
mdBook passes two arguments to the process: the first argument is the string supports and the second argument is the renderer name.
The preprocessor should exit with a status code 0 if it supports the given renderer, or return a non-zero exit code if it does not.
If the preprocessor supports the renderer, then mdbook runs it a second time, passing JSON data into stdin.
The JSON consists of an array of [context, book] where context is the serialized object PreprocessorContext and book is a Book object containing the content of the book.
The preprocessor should return the JSON format of the Book object to stdout, with any modifications it wishes to perform.
The easiest way to get started is by creating your own implementation of the
Preprocessor trait (e.g. in lib.rs) and then creating a shell binary which
translates inputs to the correct Preprocessor method. For convenience, there
is an example no-op preprocessor in the examples/ directory which can easily
be adapted for other preprocessors.

Example no-op preprocessor


Hints for implementing a preprocessor
By pulling in mdbook-preprocessor as a library, preprocessors can have access to the
existing infrastructure for dealing with books.
For example, a custom preprocessor could use the
parse_input() function to deserialize the JSON written to
stdin. Then each chapter of the Book can be mutated in-place via
Book::for_each_mut(), and then written to stdout with the serde_json
crate.
Chapters can be accessed either directly (by recursively iterating over
chapters) or via the Book::for_each_mut() convenience method.
The chapter.content is just a string which happens to be markdown. While it’s
entirely possible to use regular expressions or do a manual find & replace,
you’ll probably want to process the input into something more computer-friendly.
The mdbook-markdown crate exposes the pulldown-cmark crate used by mdBook to parse Markdown. The pulldown-cmark-to-cmark crate can be used to translate events back into markdown text.
The following code block shows how to remove all emphasis from markdown,
without accidentally breaking the document.

Take a look at the full example source for more details.
Implementing a preprocessor with a different language
The fact that mdBook utilizes stdin and stdout to communicate with the preprocessors makes it easy to implement them in a language other than Rust.
The following code shows how to implement a simple preprocessor in Python, which will modify the content of the first chapter.
The example below follows the configuration shown above with preprocessor.foo.command actually pointing to a Python script.


